We've dealt with function types and
class types already to some extent.
Let's take a step back and think
about how we would type these things.
Not how would we type a specific function,
but
how would we create a function type?
How would we type a variable that
is designed to hold a function?
And I call these callables
cuz we can call functions.
So here's an example of a type,
we're using an interface for this.
It's a type that has a call signature.
Look at these parentheses instead
of square brackets, as we saw for
index signatures.
What we're saying here is we
take two arguments, x and y,
both numbers, and we return a number,
it's almost like that.
Just delete the word function and
delete the name of the function,
so this is a call signature.
You can see here TwoNumberCalc, and
we can define this with
the type alias as well.
The key thing to look out for,
which it takes forever for
muscle memory to set in here.
It's a fat arrow when
you're doing a type alias,
because that's kind of valid
syntax on the right-hand side.
And then of course, in an interface, use
a colon, TypeScript will yell at you and
help you get it right, but
don't feel bad if you mix these up.
So here we've got add and subtract,
they're both two number calculations,
cuz these types are equivalent,
they're the same thing.
And you see here,
we don't have to type x and y, Right?
They are numbers.
This is effectively now,
we can use this as a type annotation for
an arrow function.
TwoNumberCalculation, and then the
right-hand side, we don't need any types.
If you were going to type a callback that
you pass to a function, you would use
a similar technique cuz you wanna define
that this argument is of type function.
Here are the parameters
the function takes.
Here's what the function must return,
and you could use this.
You could say, alright, I take as
an argument a TwoNumberCalculation.
Of course, you do get the type checking
you'd hope to get, like, you've got to
return a number here because it's part
of this type, TwoNumberCalculation.
Yes, sir.
>> You had sort of alluded
to it back when we were talking about
classes and inheritance and extends,
versus implements.
That is an interface that syntactically
cannot be implemented because
there's no name to sign that-
>> That's-
>> Indication.
>> Wow, that is a totally valid point and
good insight there.
Earlier I did say interfaces describe
like an interface gives you the exact
same constraints that, you would need to
use an interface to define a class and
like there is no way to
make a class callable.
Sorry, classes are callable, they just
must be used with the new keyword.
And we'll see that, but
it would not be the signature,
it would be something slightly different,
trivially different.
But yes, you cannot implement this
interface, that's a very good insight.
I'm not aware of other
cases where that's true.
>> I think you may be able to
technically implemented in JavaScript.
I don't know if there's a way to describe
the type information with TypeScript at
all [LAUGH] cuz I think from a-
>> You totally can.
>> You can return some callable,
invocable thing from
the constructor, which is gross, but,
>> You used to be able to call
constructors without the new keyword very
easily, and there was no disambiguation
between callable and constructable,
this is purely a TypeScript concept.
>> And this might have kind
of been addressed there, or
you might be getting to it,
but could you explain why
to use an interface versus
a type with callables.
>> Yeah, that's a good question,
I don't think there are clear advantages
to using an interface or a type alias,
beyond interfaces being open.
Where if you want to describe like,
I don't know,
a function with some things dangling off
of it, I think you can still do this, yep,
but now, this isn't gonna work,
you'd have to do this.
Yay, and all your inference
is gone when you do this.
So yeah, technically, I mean, you could
do that with a type alias as well.
I would say it just comes down
to the open interface issue,
which is rarely something you think
about in a situation like this.
If I were writing a library,
I would always err on
the side of interfaces to allow my
downstream consumers little flexibility.
>> Yep, and that was another comment
was types for normal projects,
interfaces for libraries.
>> Sort of, yeah, in a lot of cases.
Sometimes you write a library, and
you want to make really sure that nobody
messes with a particular type,
then you do want to type alias.
I would say, it's more about you allow for
modification or
not, and you sort of, in libraries
default to allowing modification, but
there are valid exceptions.
And same on the app side, I would say
it just matters less on the app side,
you can go and
mess with these types if you need to.
So yeah, there are lots of places where
an interface or a type alias will do.